So we already kind of looked at
what it looks like on normal.
So let's add, I think for
me, it's adding 400 or
maybe 500, I start seeing
some really significant jank.
So I'll do the recording for one second,
again, always recommend keep
the recordings as small as possible
cuz there's just so much data.
But it's really cool, so, hopefully this
should look very different this time,
with all of that stuff,
than it did the last time.
And there's a couple of things I
wanna draw your attention to one,
is the red lines across the top,
in the frames per second.
So, those red lines are where
it lost a frame, right?
Or it dropped a frame, so,
it should be really obvious when you load
up a worksite or something like that,
get it in that state where you're
worried about it, do a recording.
And you should see,
Chrome is like telling you hey,
there was some serious issues here.
In a very similar vein,
under the experience panel here,
you see this layout shift in red,
which I'm not 100% sure on what it means,
but it definitely relates to
the frame dropping in some ways.
Something's going on there, another thing
that you can see is that whereas before,
the chart here for the CPU was mostly
small mountains with a lot of free time,
though white and gray slashes.
And now it's basically 100% CPU for
the entire time it's running the app.
You can still see it kind of comes in
these waves, there's little bounces,
but it's just a massive amount.
So if we go ahead and we expand the main
tab, we can kind of see every app
has its own very unique personality,
right with how things are working.
And so you can kind of see here that what
keeps happening is every 100 milliseconds
some tasks is getting fired, and something
is going on that's causing again,
you can see more red saying
that the task took too long.
There's probably jank or whatever.
When you're looking at the thread,
what you don't care about
is how tall things are.
That's fine because that's complexity
of your code is all it is.
So if you have, my example with debugging
where you have function one calls,
function two calls, function three,
let's say you just had 100 of those,
you would have a really
long execution stack, but
it would happen really quickly cuz all
it's doing is calling another function.
So when you're looking at this thing,
if it goes up and down 100 or
something like that,
that's nothing to worry about.
What you do wanna worry about is the ones
that are too wide, because as we said
before, every 16 milliseconds it needs
to have a new frame to send basically.
And so you're looking for
long wide ones or the problematic ones and
the really long call
stacks are not a problem.
And so you can see here, we only had
16 milliseconds to produce this frame.
And this animation itself
took 129 milliseconds so
that is a lot of drop
frames happening there.
In a similar way, the way that you
can find the problematic function or
the problematic code is to
go down the call stack and
find the last long one before
they get really small.
So if you think about it, it's if you have
a if you have a function called Fibonacci,
and it takes forever to
generate a Fibonacci number.
And you wrap it in a function called foo,
and all foo does is call Fibonacci,
foo will look long too even though it's
not really doing anything cuz it's
the parent of a long function, right?
And so you'd see foo Fibonacci but what so
you wanna do is you wanna keep looking at
the long ones until you get to the last
long one who itself only called a bunch of
short ones, because the short ones,
aren't gonna be a problem.
And then you know the last long one is
going to be the closest that you can get
to the problematic function.
Does that make sense, I know that it's
kind of a confused, so in this example,
we see that the task took too long.
And we wanna know what caused and
so we can see this is long, long,
long then we get to App update long.
And then after app update,
if we were to zoom in here,
we would just see that it's calling
a million tiny any little short ones.
So, if we wanted to know what
function was the problem here,
app update is the last long one
before a bunch of the short ones.
And then you can do cool things, so
you can click on app update if we
wanted to kinda see what's going on.
And we can bring back up
this summary view here,
once we click on any cell you
can see this is changing.
So we can click on the last long one and
then we can go and
open the actual file where
the function got called boom here.
So again, from the performance, you find
whichever cell that you wanna investigate,
and then you look at the summary,
which you might have to drag up a little
bit and then you click on the file name.
So one thing that you'll notice
that's really cool is after you've
done a performance audit,
when you look into sources,
Chrome will save how long the function
took to run in the sidebar here,
of all the stuff that it was able to see.
Which is really cool, so you can see
this app update took a super long time,
took like well over a second,
almost 1.5 seconds.
And then as you start looking into it, so
that basically gets us to the JavaScript
code that's causing our problem.
In this case, we can see that it's
doing a lot of reads and writes right,
where it's going through each one of
these little Chrome Dev Tools things and
it's looking to see so it's reading
them to see if it has a class name.
And then if it does have that class name,
it's reading them again to
get the offset from it.
And then it's reading the current position
against the max height of the screen
that it's in.
So it's doing really,
really heavy calculation right and
it's doing them in an inefficient order
where it's like read, write, read, write,
read, write, just like we saw before.
And what's really cool is that there's
this optimize button on here and
literally all this is doing is it's
batching those things so that they're done
without invalidating layout just like we
were talking about in the example before.
And so even with this many hundreds and
hundreds of them,
if you click optimize, you can see
that they instantly smooth right up.
So it's not just don't do heavy lifting,
the web is very capable
of doing heavy lifting.
But it's important to know how these
layouts happen because if you optimize
around them, like do all your reads and
then do all your rights, and
you put both of those in request animation
frame you can get a really smooth
animation even though it's still
doing a lot of really heavy work.
How are folks feeling about that?
Any questions?
>> You said something about getting the
opportunity to dig into the call stack.
So, cuz when we clicked on thrashing.js
that did take us to sources.
>> Right.
>> But there was nothing in
the call stack on the right.
So, I think I'm missing
a piece of the puzzle.
>> Yeah, no, absolutely, no, that's great.
So yeah, the question was about that I
mentioned earlier that when we're looking
at performance, we'll be able to look
into the call stack of how it got there.
But when you clicked on one like we did,
and you clicked on the link,
which is what we had done earlier,
it didn't actually take you to
sources with a call stack, right?
We got to App update and we clicked on
this and it was not paused at a debugger.
So we've got two options here, option one
is we can now that we've gone to sources,
we can set a debugger, right?
We can set a breakpoint there and then
let it hit again and when it hits again,
we'll get the full call stack over here.
So that's option one, option two is back
over here on this performance panel,
where we can actually see where these
things came from, this one's not a good
example because it's literally
just animation frames are firing.
Every time, but
If this was wrapped in a function or
something that you would still
see the call stack here as well.
So it's kinda up to you if
you just want to peek at it,
the call tree can be really good for that
if you just wanna see where it came from.
If you really wanna understand it better
then I would recommend clicking on
the file name and
then adding app update is here, so
then adding one here and
then you're able to see.
But again, this example is not great for
that because it's just request
Animation Frame firing.
But if you did have something calling
other stuff like react generating,
you will see that all
here in the call stack.